AI Toolkit docs migration (#7827)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/intelligentapps/evaluation.md

---
Order: 5
Area: intelligentapps
TOCTitle: Evaluation
ContentId:
PageTitle: AI Evaluation
DateApproved:
MetaDescription: Import a dataset with LLMs or SLMs output or rerun it for the queries. Run evaluation job for the popular evaluators like F1 score, relevance, coherence, similarity... find, visualize, and compare the evaluation results in tables or charts.
MetaSocialImage:
---

# Evaluation Overview

> AI engineers often need to evaluate models with different parameters, different prompts in a dataset for comparing to ground truth and generate values from the comparisons. AI Toolkit allows you do perform evaluations with minimal efforts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AI engineers often need to evaluate models with different parameters, different prompts in a dataset for comparing to ground truth and generate values from the comparisons. AI Toolkit allows you to perform evaluations with minimal effort.
```

> ## Prepare an evaluation job

Reviewer: What does it mean to prepare an evaluation job? Is this just a technical step before you can run, or is something actually being done? If nothing special, include it as part of starting an evaluation job.
At least describe what this is.

> Navigate to the tree view's `Batch Run` entry in `TOOLS` section. You will see an evaluation job history view. Select the button `Start Evaluation`, then answer the questions:

Reviewer: Use numbered steps to provide instructions, don't just add a sentence because it's not very easy to parse.
Include a screenshot where needed

1. Evaluation job name: default or a name you can specify
1. Evaluator: currently the built-in evaluators can be selected.
1. Judging model: a model from the list that is selected as judging model to evaluate for some evaluators.
1. Dataset: you can start with a sample dataset for learning purpose, or import a JSONL file with fields `query`,`response`,`ground truth`.

## Start an evaluation job

> You will be promoted to confirm you want to start the evaluation. Or select any individual evaluation job to re-run it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be prompted to confirm that you want to start the evaluation. Alternatively, select any individual evaluation job to re-run it.
```

Reviewer: This section is very short - combine with previous section?

## Monitor the evaluation job

> Once an evaluation job is started, you can find its status from the evaluation job overview. Each evaluation job has link to the dataset used, logs from evaluation process, timestamp and details of the evaluation.

Reviewer: Screenshot?

## Find results of evaluation

> Select the evaluation job detail, the view has columns of selected evaluators with the numerical values. Some may have aggregate values.

Reviewer: Screenshot? This one sentence is not providing a lot of value.
Also include a link to the Data Wrangler extension and docs.

> # Evaluation Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Model evaluation
```

AI engineers often need to evaluate models with different parameters or prompts in a dataset for comparing to ground truth and compute evaluator values from the comparisons. AI Toolkit allows you to perform evaluations with minimal effort.

![Start evaluation](./images/evaluation/evaluation.png)

## Start an evaluation job

> 1. In AI Toolkit view, select **TOOLS** > **Evaluation** to open the evluation view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In AI Toolkit view, select **TOOLS** > **Evaluation** to open the Evaluation view.
```

> 1. Select the button **Create Evaluation**, then answer the questions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Create Evaluation** button and provide the following information:
```

    - **Evaluation job name:** default or a name you can specify
    - **Evaluator:** currently the built-in evaluators can be selected.

>     ![Evaluators](./images/evaluation/evaluators.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ![Evaluators](./images/evaluation/evaluators.png)
```

    - **Judging model:** a model from the list that can be selected as judging model to evaluate for some evaluators.
    - **Dataset:** you can start with a sample dataset for learning purpose, or import a JSONL file with fields `query`,`response`,`ground truth`.
1. Once you provide all necessary information for evaluation, a new evaluation job is created. You will be promoted to open your new evaluation job details.

> ![Open evaluation](./images/evaluation/openevaluation.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    ![Open evaluation](./images/evaluation/openevaluation.png)
```

1. Verify your dataset and select **Run Evaluation** to start the evaluation.

> ![Run Evaluation](./images/evaluation/runevaluation.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    ![Run Evaluation](./images/evaluation/runevaluation.png)
```

## Monitor the evaluation job

Once an evaluation job is started, you can find its status from the evaluation job view.

> ![Running evaluation](./images/evaluation/running.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

![Running evaluation](./images/evaluation/running.png)

```

> Each evaluation job has link to the dataset used, logs from evaluation process, timestamp and link to the details of the evaluation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each evaluation job has a link to the dataset that was used, logs from the evaluation process, timestamp, and a link to the details of the evaluation.
```

## Find results of evaluation

Select the evaluation job detail, the view has columns of selected evaluators with the numerical values. Some may have aggregate values.

> You can also select **Open In Data Wrangler** to open the data in `Data Wrangler` extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also select **Open In Data Wrangler** to open the data with the Data Wrangler extension.
```
